Enterprise Pricing Blog starter (#3379)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/transparent-enterprise-pricing.md

---
date: 2022-06-01
title: Why we adopted transparent enterprise pricing (and you should too)
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Inside PostHog"]

> author: ["simon-fisher", "andy-vandervell"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: ["simon-fisher"]
```

Two words that embody everything we hate about modern SaaS products. And, when you see them, you know it's just the start of the sales dance.

Even if you're deemed worthy enough for a sales rep to call you, it's likely you still won't find out the price until you've answered a _lot_ of questions.

And maybe seen a demo.

And perhaps your own hands-on evaluation.  

And introduced your bosses' boss. 

And consulted the legal department.

And "hey, would you like to join our webinar?"

It's all a colossal waste of time and energy that's better spent focusing on what matters: building better products.

That's why, at PostHog, we've adopted transparent pricing and self-service for every paid plan, even PostHog Enterprise.

## Why transparent pricing is important

For those who don't already know, PostHog is an all-in-one product analytics suite that replaces siloed tools for [product analytics](/product#product-analytics), [Session Recording](/product/session-recording), [Feature Flags](/product/feature-flags), and Experimentation. It's open source and you can host it yourself, giving you complete control over your data – we have a Cloud version too if that's your thing. 

> As an open-source business, we put great value in transparency. We make our processes, policies, and team structure available for anyone to read in our company handbook, and the vast majority of our comms is visible for anyone to read on [our GitHub repo](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an open-source business, we put great value in transparency. We make our processes, policies, and team structure available for anyone to read in our [company handbook](/handbook), and the vast majority of our comms is visible for anyone to read on [our GitHub repo](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues).
```

This philosophy extends to transparent pricing and our self-serve model. 

We believe transparent pricing is fundamentally better for both us and our customers. No one should ever feel like they're paying over the odds because they didn't haggle hard enough, or have to go through a lengthy process just to get a simple estimate.

Self-service, meanwhile, makes it easy for customers to get up and running as quickly as possible. Got a problem to solve? We'll get out of your way and let you do that, and make it easy to upgrade to a higher tier when you actually need it.

> That's why we made our core paid plans totally self-serve and free 1 million events per month, with the "per event" price decreasing as usage increases, as you can see below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why we made our core paid plans totally self-serve and free up to 1 million events per month, with the "per event" price decreasing as usage increases, as you can see below.
```

[SCREENSHOT HERE]

This model has worked incredibly well for us. 

It's taken us from nothing to significant revenue, and healthy growth, in less than two years without any outbound sales. 

[GROWTH GRAPH HERE]

Our customer success team works hard to help new and potential customers get what they need from PostHog, but we don't cold email companies or spend time chasing specific customers.

## Adopting transparent enterprise pricing

> The last frontier for us was our enterprise plans. While some companies practice partial transparency, we wanted 100% transparency across the board. This took a while to achieve, but we're glad we did.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last frontier for us was our Enterprise plans. While some companies practice partial transparency, we wanted 100% transparency across the board. This took a while to achieve, but we're glad we did.
```

Our plans are split by whether you want to self-host PostHog, or have it hosted and managed by us.

There are three options for [self-hosting PostHog](/pricing):

- **Open-Source:** Contains all of the base analytics features but is limited to one project

> - **Scale:** Contains advanced features such as experiments and group analytics and has unlimited projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scale:** Contains advanced features such as experiments and group analytics, and has unlimited projects
```

- **Enterprise:** Comes with SAML-based SSO, project permissions and a whole lot of help from us

For PostHog Cloud, there are just two options:

- **Cloud:** Mirrors the features of PostHog Scale, hosted by us
- **Cloud Enterprise:** Mirrors the features of PostHog Enterprise, hosted by us

PostHog Scale and Cloud have had transparent pricing for a while and, unsurprisingly, we found companies interested in PostHog Enterprise would calculate the price using the Scale or Cloud pricing calculators. 

This makes sense in isolation, but our enterprise plans cost more because you get more, particularly on self-hosted where we offer a lot of support to ensure things run smoothly.

We adapted our existing pricing models to be roughly 2x Scale pricing for self-hosted Enterprise, and 1.3x Cloud pricing for Cloud Enterprise to reflect the additional benefits you gain from these editions.

We didn't want to mandate lengthy annual commitments, so all of our products can be subscribed to on a monthly basis and canceled at any time.

> That said, most larger organizations fall into a traditional annual buying process, and we incentivize those with bigger discounts for the upfront commitment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, most larger organizations fall into a traditional annual buying process, and we incentivize them with bigger discounts for the upfront commitment.
```

## What did we learn?

People expect self-hosted deployments to be cheaper than PostHog Cloud as they incur the additional infrastructure 
costs. 

While it's true that running PostHog Cloud requires a minimum level of spend from us, self-hosting costs more than Cloud for a few important reasons:

1. Self-hosting bestows unique benefits you can't get with any other equivalent product analytics platform

2. Developing a self-hosted tool requires an additional level of complexity and overhead for us

3. We are willing to invest a significant amount of our time in ensuring our large, self-hosted deployments are tuned effectively so customers have the best PostHog experience possible. 

> This is a message we'll continue to refine, but ultimately we feel the tolerance for the expense PostHog Enterprise is directly connected to how important self-hosting is to a customer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a message we'll continue to refine, but ultimately we feel tolerance for the expense PostHog Enterprise is directly connected to how important self-hosting is to a customer. 
```

It's still good value compared to other enterprise SaaS tools, especially considering the breadth of features we offer, and if the price isn't right then Cloud Enterprise might be a better option for those customers.

## Going one step further... self-serve for Enterprise

> When I started writing this blog post even though we were being transparent about Enterprise pricing, you'd still have to contact us to actually sign up.  Here at PostHog we move pretty fast, and you can now sign up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things move fast at PostHog. When I started writing this blog post, our Enterprise plans had transparent pricing but still required you to contact us to get started. Not anymore.

You can now sign up
```

for an Enterprise license yourself in a fully automated manner.

> If having SAML integration, project permissions and a whole lot of set up and ongoing help from us is for you, you can sign up for your [Enterprise license key](https://license.posthog.com/?price_id=price_1L1AeWEuIatRXSdzj0Y5ioOU).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If having SAML integration, project permissions and a whole lot of set up and ongoing help from us is for you, you can sign up for your [Enterprise license key](https://license.posthog.com/?price_id=price_1L1AeWEuIatRXSdzj0Y5ioOU) in just a few clicks.
```

> Soon, you'll be able to upgrade yourself on both Cloud and Self-hosted too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our final hurdle is to make it so Scale and Cloud users can upgrade to Enterprise themselves without our intervention. It's coming soon.
```

costs. 

While it's true that running PostHog Cloud requires a minimum level of spend from us, self-hosting costs more than Cloud for a few important reasons:

1. Self-hosting bestows unique benefits you can't get with any other equivalent product analytics platform

2. Developing a self-hosted tool requires an additional level of complexity and overhead for us

3. We are willing to invest a significant amount of our time in ensuring our large, self-hosted deployments are tuned effectively so customers have the best PostHog experience possible. 

This is a message we'll continue to refine, but ultimately we feel tolerance for the expense PostHog Enterprise is directly connected to how important self-hosting is to a customer. 

It's still good value compared to other enterprise SaaS tools, especially considering the breadth of features we offer, and if the price isn't right then Cloud Enterprise might be a better option for those customers.

## Going one step further... self-serve for Enterprise

Things move fast at PostHog. When I started writing this blog post, our Enterprise plans had transparent pricing but still required you to contact us to get started. Not anymore.

> You can now sign up for an Enterprise license yourself in a fully automated manner, so all our plans are not transparently-priced and self-serve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now sign up for an Enterprise license yourself in a fully automated manner, so all our plans are now transparently-priced and self-serve.
```

This philosophy extends to transparent pricing and our self-serve model. 

We believe transparent pricing is fundamentally better for both us and our customers. No one should ever feel like they're paying over the odds because they didn't haggle hard enough, or have to go through a lengthy process just to get a simple estimate.

Self-service, meanwhile, makes it easy for customers to get up and running as quickly as possible. Got a problem to solve? We'll get out of your way and let you do that, and make it easy to upgrade to a higher tier when you actually need it.

That's why we made our core paid plans totally self-serve and free up to 1 million events per month, with the "per event" price decreasing as usage increases, as you can see below.

![PostHog pricing calc](../images/blog/enterprise-pricing-blog/pricing-calc.png)

This model has worked incredibly well for us. 

It's taken us from nothing to significant revenue, and healthy growth, in less than two years without any outbound sales. 

![PostHog's revenue going sharply up and to the right](../images/blog/pricing-lesson/revenue-pricing.png)

> Our customer success team works hard to help new and potential customers get what they need from PostHog, but we don't cold email companies or spend time chasing specific customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> ![PostHog's revenue going sharply up and to the right](../images/blog/pricing-lesson/revenue-pricing.png)
> 
> Our customer success team works hard to help new and potential customers get what they need from PostHog, but we don't cold email companies or spend time chasing specific customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
date: 2022-06-01

> title: Why we adopted transparent enterprise pricing (and you should too)

Reviewer 2: This is a great article, but the title maybe could be punchier/more opinionated?

'Transparent enterprise pricing was an obvious decision for us - why is it so rare?'
'Why we think companies hurt themselves when they hide their enterprise pricing'
'Stop hiding enterprise pricing behind a sales call'
'Why we believe 'contact sales for pricing' is a thing of the past'

Reviewer: Hmm, I like your thinking. Just dreaming up other options...

- It's time to kill 'contact sales' for pricing
- It's time you ditched 'contact sales' for pricing
- It's time SaaS companies stop hiding their prices
- We hate secretive SaaS pricing models, so we fixed it
- Secretive SaaS pricing is bad for everyone. We found a better way

> title: Why we adopted transparent enterprise pricing (and you should too)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Why we ditched ‘talk to sales’ for transparent pricing
```

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/hog-in-a-room-generic.jpg
featuredImageType: full
categories: ["Inside PostHog"]
author: ["simon-fisher", "Open source"]
---

> "I wonder how much this SaaS product costs to..."
>
> "Contact sales!"
>
> 😤

Contact. Sales.

Two words that embody everything we hate about modern SaaS products. And, when you see them, you know it's just the start of the sales dance.

Even if you're deemed worthy enough for a sales rep to call you, it's likely you still won't find out the price until you've answered a _lot_ of questions.

And maybe seen a demo.

And perhaps your own hands-on evaluation.  

> And introduced your bosses' boss. 

Reviewer 2: boss' boss?

> And introduced your bosses' boss. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And introduced your boss' boss. 
```

And consulted the legal department.

And "hey, would you like to join our webinar?"

It's all a colossal waste of time and energy that's better spent focusing on what matters: building better products.

That's why, at PostHog, we've adopted transparent pricing and self-service for every paid plan, even PostHog Enterprise.

> > Simon Fisher leads customer success at PostHog. He's made a career out of helping companies automate stuff, including seven years at IBM and five years at Chef Software. He lives in Sheffield in the North of England with his wife, three young boys, a black labrador, and a killer Lego collection. Seriously, it's sweet af.

Reviewer 2: I like the informality but 'sweet af' sounds a bit bro-y and not in keeping with our usual tone. Just 'sweet'?

> > Simon Fisher leads customer success at PostHog. He's made a career out of helping companies automate stuff, including seven years at IBM and five years at Chef Software. He lives in Sheffield in the North of England with his wife, three young boys, a black labrador, and a killer Lego collection. Seriously, it's sweet af.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Simon Fisher leads customer success at PostHog. He's made a career out of helping companies automate stuff, including seven years at IBM and five years at Chef Software. He lives in Sheffield in the North of England with his wife, three young boys, a black labrador, and a killer Lego collection. Seriously, it's sweet.
```

> ## Why transparent pricing is important

Reviewer 2: More to the point - 'Why transparent pricing actually works'? (I think everyone kinda agrees it's important)

Reviewer: Good call

> ## Why transparent pricing is important

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Transparent pricing works
```

This makes sense in isolation, but our enterprise plans cost more because you get more, particularly on self-hosted where we offer a lot of support to ensure things run smoothly.

We adapted our existing pricing models to be roughly 2x Scale pricing for self-hosted Enterprise, and 1.3x Cloud pricing for Cloud Enterprise to reflect the additional benefits you gain from these editions.

We didn't want to mandate lengthy annual commitments, so all of our products can be subscribed to on a monthly basis and canceled at any time.

That said, most larger organizations fall into a traditional annual buying process, and we incentivize them with bigger discounts for the upfront commitment.

## What did we learn?

People expect self-hosted deployments to be cheaper than PostHog Cloud as they incur the additional infrastructure 
costs. 

While it's true that running PostHog Cloud requires a minimum level of spend from us, self-hosting costs more than Cloud for a few important reasons:

> 1. Self-hosting bestows unique benefits you can't get with any other equivalent product analytics platform

Reviewer 2: This basically says 'we charge more because you're stuck with us'. I think points 2 and 3 are more user-friendly, so I'd maybe put this 3rd or remove it? (Also 'bestows' - not plain English)

> 1. Developing and supporting self-hosted platform is more complex than a traditional SaaS offering (and we offer both)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Developing and supporting a self-hosted platform is more complex than a traditional SaaS offering (and we offer both)
```

---
date: 2022-05-10
title: Transparent Enterprise Pricing
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Inside PostHog"]
author: ["simon-fisher"]
---

> [Contact sales](/signup/self-host/get-in-touch?plan=enterprise#contact).  That's what you're usually encouraged to do when you're trying to figure out how much it's going to cost you
> to subscribe to the premium variant of a product.  Then, if you're deemed worthy enough for a sales rep to call you, it's
> highly likely that you won't find out the pricing until you've answered a _lot_ of questions.  And maybe seen a demo.
> And perhaps your own hands-on evaluation.  And also introduced your bosses boss.  Surely there has to be a better way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Contact sales](/signup/self-host/get-in-touch?plan=enterprise#contact).  That's what you're usually encouraged to do when you're trying to figure out how much it's going to cost you
to subscribe to the premium, or enterprise, variant of a product. Then, if you're deemed worthy enough for a sales rep to call you, it's
highly likely that you won't find out the pricing until you've answered a _lot_ of questions.  And maybe seen a demo.
And perhaps your own hands-on evaluation.  And also introduced your bosses boss.  Surely there has to be a better way? There is. It's called transparant enterprise pricing.
```

> [Contact sales](/signup/self-host/get-in-touch?plan=enterprise#contact).  That's what you're usually encouraged to do when you're trying to figure out how much it's going to cost you
> to subscribe to the premium variant of a product.  Then, if you're deemed worthy enough for a sales rep to call you, it's
> highly likely that you won't find out the pricing until you've answered a _lot_ of questions.  And maybe seen a demo.
> And perhaps your own hands-on evaluation.  And also introduced your bosses boss.  Surely there has to be a better way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Contact sales](/signup/self-host/get-in-touch?plan=enterprise#contact). That's the usual answer when you're trying to figure out how much a premium, or enterprise, product tier costs. 

Next, if you're deemed worthy enough for a sales rep to call you, it's highly likely you won't find out the pricing until you've answered a _lot_ of questions.

And maybe seen a demo.

And perhaps your own hands-on evaluation.  

And also introduced your bosses' boss. 

And consulted the finance deparment.

And don't forget the legal department.

And "hey, would you like to join our webinar?"

This is everything we hate about modern SaaS companies, so we found a better way.

We introduced transparant enterprise pricing.

```

Reviewer: I really like your opening. I've amped up the absurdity and rhetorical tone for effect.

##  Why did we implement transparent pricing?

> At PostHog we pride ourselves on transparency.  We make our processes, policies, and team structure available for anyone

Reviewer: It's always best to assume the reader doesn't know anything about us, so I think we should expand this section a little cover the following:

- What is PostHog?
- How is it different to Amplitude etc.?
- A brief overview of the different tiers of the product currently

This will add a little more context into the rest of the post. No need to go super in-depth here. An additional paragraph should suffice.

Author: Added an intro section in the latest commit @andyvan-ph
